README.md, before:


[<img src="https://github-ads.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/support-ukraine.svg?t=1" />](https://supportukrainenow.org)

# A little library to handle color conversions and comparisons

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/spatie/color.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/spatie/color)
[![Software License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE.md)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/spatie/color/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/spatie/color)
[![Quality Score](https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/spatie/color.svg?style=flat-square)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/spatie/color)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/spatie/color.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/spatie/color)
![Tests](https://github.com/spatie/color/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)

A little library to handle color conversions and comparisons. Currently supports rgb, rgba, hex, hsl, hsla, CIELab, and xyz color formats as well as CIE76, CIE94, and CIEDE2000 color comparison algorithms.

```php
$rgb = Rgb::fromString('rgb(55,155,255)');

echo $rgb->red(); // 55
echo $rgb->green(); // 155
echo $rgb->blue(); // 255

echo $rgb; // rgb(55,155,255)

$rgba = $rgb->toRgba(); // `Spatie\Color\Rgba`
$rgba->alpha(); // 1
echo $rgba; // rgba(55,155,255,1)

$hex = $rgb->toHex(); // `Spatie\Color\Hex`
$rgba->alpha(); // ff
echo $hex; // #379bff

$cmyk = $rgb->toCmyk(); // `Spatie\Color\Cmyk`
echo $cmyk; // cmyk(78,39,0,0)

$hsl = $rgb->toHsl(); // `Spatie\Color\Hsl`
echo $hsl; // hsl(210,100%,100%)

$hsb = $rgb->toHsb(); // `Spatie\Color\Hsb`
echo $hsb; // hsl(210,78.4%,100%)

$lab = $rgb->toCIELab();
echo $lab; // CIELab(62.91,5.34,-57.73)

$xyz = $rgb->toXyz();
echo $xyz; // xyz(31.3469,31.4749,99.0308)

$hex2 = Hex::fromString('#2d78c8');

$ratio = Contrast::ratio(Hex::fromString('#f0fff0'), Hex::fromString('#191970')); 
echo $ratio; // 15.0

$cie76_distance = Distance::CIE76($rgb, $hex2);
$cie76_distance = Distance::CIE76('rgba(55,155,255,1)', '#2d78c8'); // Outputs the same thing, Factory is built-in to all comparison functions
echo $cie76_distance; // 55.89468042667388

$cie94_distance = Distance::CIE94($rgb, $hex2);
echo $cie94_distance; // 13.49091942790753

$cie94_textiles_distance = Distance::CIE94($rgb, $hex2, 1); // Third parameter optionally sets the application type (0 = Graphic Arts [Default], 1 = Textiles)
echo $cie94_textiles_distance; // 7.0926538068477

$ciede2000_distance = Distance::CIEDE2000($rgb, $hex2);
echo $ciede2000_distance; // 12.711957696300898
```

## Support us

[<img src="https://github-ads.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/color.jpg?t=1" width="419px" />](https://spatie.be/github-ad-click/color)

We invest a lot of resources into creating [best in class open source packages](https://spatie.be/open-source). You can support us by [buying one of our paid products](https://spatie.be/open-source/support-us).

We highly appreciate you sending us a postcard from your hometown, mentioning which of our package(s) you are using. You'll find our address on [our contact page](https://spatie.be/about-us). We publish all received postcards on [our virtual postcard wall](https://spatie.be/open-source/postcards).

## Installation

You can install the package via composer:

```bash
composer require spatie/color
```

## Usage

The `Color` package contains a separate class per color format, which each implement a `Color` interface.

There are seven classes which implement the `Color` interface:

- `CIELab`
- `Cmyk`
- `Hex`
- `Hsb`
- `Hsl`
- `Hsla`
- `Rgb`
- `Rgba`
- `Xyz`

### `interface Spatie\Color\Color`

#### `fromString(): Color`

Parses a color string and returns a `Color` implementation, depending on the format of the input string.

```php
Hex::fromString('#000000');
Rgba::fromString('rgba(255, 255, 255, 1)');
Hsla::fromString('hsla(360, 100%, 100%, 1)');
```

Throws an `InvalidColorValue` exception if the string can't be parsed.

> `Rgb`, `Rgba`, `Hsl` and `Hsla` strings are allowed to have spaces. `rgb(0,0,0)` is just as valid as `rgb(0, 0, 0)`.

#### `red(): int|string`

Return the value of the `red` color channel.

```php
Hex::fromString('#ff0000')->red(); // 'ff'
Rgb::fromString('rgb(255, 0, 0)')->red(); // 255
```

#### `green(): int|string`

Return the value of the `green` color channel.

```php
Hex::fromString('#00ff00')->green(); // 'ff'
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 255, 0)')->green(); // 255
```

#### `blue(): int|string`

Return the value of the `blue` color channel.

```php
Hex::fromString('#0000ff')->blue(); // 'ff'
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->blue(); // 255
```

#### `toCmyk(): Cmyk`

Convert a color to a `Cmyk` color.

```php
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toCmyk();
// `Cmyk` instance; 'cmyk(100,100,0,0)'
```

#### `toHex(): Hex`

Convert a color to a `Hex` color.

```php
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toHex();
// `Hex` instance; '#0000ff'
```

When coming from a color format that doesn't support opacity, it can be added by passing it to the `$alpha` parameter.


#### `toHsb(): Hsb`

Convert a color to a `Hsb` color.

```php
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toHsb();
// `Hsl` instance; 'hsb(240, 100%, 100%)'
```

#### `toHsl(): Hsl`

Convert a color to a `Hsl` color.

```php
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toHsl();
// `Hsl` instance; 'hsl(240, 100%, 50%)'
```

When coming from a color format that supports opacity, the opacity will simply be omitted.

```php
Rgba::fromString('rgba(0, 0, 255, .5)')->toHsl();
// `Hsl` instance; 'hsl(240, 100%, 50%)'
```

#### `toHsla(float $alpha = 1): Hsla`

Convert a color to a `Hsla` color.

```php
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toHsla();
// `Hsla` instance; 'hsla(240, 100%, 50%, 1.0)'
```

When coming from a color format that doesn't support opacity, it can be added by passing it to the `$alpha` parameter.

```php
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toHsla(.5);
// `Hsla` instance; 'hsla(240, 100%, 50%, 0.5)'
```

#### `toRgb(): Rgb`

Convert a color to an `Rgb` color.

```php
Hex::fromString('#0000ff')->toRgb();
// `Rgb` instance; 'rgb(0, 0, 255)'
```

When coming from a color format that supports opacity, the opacity will simply be omitted.

```php
Rgba::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255, .5)')->toRgb();
// `Rgb` instance; 'rgb(0, 0, 255)'
```

#### `toRgba(float $alpha = 1): Rgba`

Convert a color to a `Rgba` color.

```php
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toRgba();
// `Rgba` instance; 'rgba(0, 0, 255, 1)'
```

When coming from a color format that doesn't support opacity, it can be added by passing it to the `$alpha` parameter.

```php
Rgba::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toRgba(.5);
// `Rgba` instance; 'rgba(0, 0, 255, .5)'
```

#### `__toString(): string`

Cast the color to a string.

```php
(string) Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)'); // 'rgb(0,0,255)'
(string) Rgba::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255, .5)'); // 'rgb(0,0,255,0.5)'
(string) Hex::fromString('#0000ff'); // '#0000ff'
(string) Hsl::fromString('hsl(240, 100%, 50%)'); // 'hsl(240, 100%, 50%)'
(string) Hsla::fromString('hsla(240, 100%, 50%, 1.0)'); // 'hsla(240, 100%, 50%, 1.0)'
```

### `Factory::fromString(): Color`

With the `Factory` class, you can create a color instance from any string (it does an educated guess under the hood). If the string isn't a valid color string in any format, it throws an `InvalidColorValue` exception.

```php
Factory::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)'); // `Rgb` instance
Factory::fromString('#0000ff'); // `Hex` instance
Factory::fromString('hsl(240, 100%, 50%)'); // `Hsl` instance
Factory::fromString('Hello world!'); // `InvalidColorValue` exception
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information what has changed recently.

## Testing

``` bash
$ composer test
```

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/spatie/.github/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Security

If you've found a bug regarding security please mail [security@spatie.be](mailto:security@spatie.be) instead of using the issue tracker.

## Credits

- [Sebastian De Deyne](https://github.com/sebastiandedeyne)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## About Spatie
Spatie is a webdesign agency based in Antwerp, Belgium. You'll find an overview of all our open source projects [on our website](https://spatie.be/opensource).

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Added named colors (#87)
* Added named colors

* Added named colors

README.md, after:


[<img src="https://github-ads.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/support-ukraine.svg?t=1" />](https://supportukrainenow.org)

# A little library to handle color conversions and comparisons

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/spatie/color.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/spatie/color)
[![Software License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE.md)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/spatie/color/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/spatie/color)
[![Quality Score](https://img.shields.io/scrutinizer/g/spatie/color.svg?style=flat-square)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/spatie/color)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/spatie/color.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/spatie/color)
![Tests](https://github.com/spatie/color/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)

A little library to handle color conversions and comparisons. Currently, supports CSS names, rgb, rgba, hex, hsl, hsla, CIELab, and xyz color formats as well as CIE76, CIE94, and CIEDE2000 color comparison algorithms.

```php
$named = Named::fromString('peru'); // case-insensitive

echo $named->red(); // 205
echo $named->green(); // 133
echo $named->blue(); // 63

echo $named->toHex(); // #cd853f

$rgb = Rgb::fromString('rgb(55,155,255)');

echo $rgb->red(); // 55
echo $rgb->green(); // 155
echo $rgb->blue(); // 255

echo $rgb; // rgb(55,155,255)

$rgba = $rgb->toRgba(); // `Spatie\Color\Rgba`
$rgba->alpha(); // 1
echo $rgba; // rgba(55,155,255,1)

$hex = $rgb->toHex(); // `Spatie\Color\Hex`
$rgba->alpha(); // ff
echo $hex; // #379bff

$cmyk = $rgb->toCmyk(); // `Spatie\Color\Cmyk`
echo $cmyk; // cmyk(78,39,0,0)

$hsl = $rgb->toHsl(); // `Spatie\Color\Hsl`
echo $hsl; // hsl(210,100%,100%)

$hsb = $rgb->toHsb(); // `Spatie\Color\Hsb`
echo $hsb; // hsl(210,78.4%,100%)

$lab = $rgb->toCIELab();
echo $lab; // CIELab(62.91,5.34,-57.73)

$xyz = $rgb->toXyz();
echo $xyz; // xyz(31.3469,31.4749,99.0308)

$hex2 = Hex::fromString('#2d78c8');

$ratio = Contrast::ratio(Hex::fromString('#f0fff0'), Hex::fromString('#191970')); 
echo $ratio; // 15.0

$cie76_distance = Distance::CIE76($rgb, $hex2);
$cie76_distance = Distance::CIE76('rgba(55,155,255,1)', '#2d78c8'); // Outputs the same thing, Factory is built-in to all comparison functions
echo $cie76_distance; // 55.89468042667388

$cie94_distance = Distance::CIE94($rgb, $hex2);
echo $cie94_distance; // 13.49091942790753

$cie94_textiles_distance = Distance::CIE94($rgb, $hex2, 1); // Third parameter optionally sets the application type (0 = Graphic Arts [Default], 1 = Textiles)
echo $cie94_textiles_distance; // 7.0926538068477

$ciede2000_distance = Distance::CIEDE2000($rgb, $hex2);
echo $ciede2000_distance; // 12.711957696300898
```

## Support us

[<img src="https://github-ads.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/color.jpg?t=1" width="419px" />](https://spatie.be/github-ad-click/color)

We invest a lot of resources into creating [best in class open source packages](https://spatie.be/open-source). You can support us by [buying one of our paid products](https://spatie.be/open-source/support-us).

We highly appreciate you sending us a postcard from your hometown, mentioning which of our package(s) you are using. You'll find our address on [our contact page](https://spatie.be/about-us). We publish all received postcards on [our virtual postcard wall](https://spatie.be/open-source/postcards).

## Installation

You can install the package via composer:

```bash
composer require spatie/color
```

## Usage

The `Color` package contains a separate class per color format, which each implement a `Color` interface.

There are seven classes which implement the `Color` interface:

- `CIELab`
- `Cmyk`
- `Hex`
- `Hsb`
- `Hsl`
- `Hsla`
- `Rgb`
- `Rgba`
- `Xyz`

### `interface Spatie\Color\Color`

#### `fromString(): Color`

Parses a color string and returns a `Color` implementation, depending on the format of the input string.

```php
Named::fromString('blue');
Hex::fromString('#000000');
Rgba::fromString('rgba(255, 255, 255, 1)');
Hsla::fromString('hsla(360, 100%, 100%, 1)');
```

Throws an `InvalidColorValue` exception if the string can't be parsed.

> `Rgb`, `Rgba`, `Hsl` and `Hsla` strings are allowed to have spaces. `rgb(0,0,0)` is just as valid as `rgb(0, 0, 0)`.

#### `red(): int|string`

Return the value of the `red` color channel.

```php
Hex::fromString('#ff0000')->red(); // 'ff'
Rgb::fromString('rgb(255, 0, 0)')->red(); // 255
```

#### `green(): int|string`

Return the value of the `green` color channel.

```php
Hex::fromString('#00ff00')->green(); // 'ff'
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 255, 0)')->green(); // 255
```

#### `blue(): int|string`

Return the value of the `blue` color channel.

```php
Hex::fromString('#0000ff')->blue(); // 'ff'
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->blue(); // 255
```

#### `toCmyk(): Cmyk`

Convert a color to a `Cmyk` color.

```php
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toCmyk();
// `Cmyk` instance; 'cmyk(100,100,0,0)'
```

#### `toHex(): Hex`

Convert a color to a `Hex` color.

```php
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toHex();
// `Hex` instance; '#0000ff'
```

When coming from a color format that doesn't support opacity, it can be added by passing it to the `$alpha` parameter.


#### `toHsb(): Hsb`

Convert a color to a `Hsb` color.

```php
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toHsb();
// `Hsl` instance; 'hsb(240, 100%, 100%)'
```

#### `toHsl(): Hsl`

Convert a color to a `Hsl` color.

```php
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toHsl();
// `Hsl` instance; 'hsl(240, 100%, 50%)'
```

When coming from a color format that supports opacity, the opacity will simply be omitted.

```php
Rgba::fromString('rgba(0, 0, 255, .5)')->toHsl();
// `Hsl` instance; 'hsl(240, 100%, 50%)'
```

#### `toHsla(float $alpha = 1): Hsla`

Convert a color to a `Hsla` color.

```php
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toHsla();
// `Hsla` instance; 'hsla(240, 100%, 50%, 1.0)'
```

When coming from a color format that doesn't support opacity, it can be added by passing it to the `$alpha` parameter.

```php
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toHsla(.5);
// `Hsla` instance; 'hsla(240, 100%, 50%, 0.5)'
```

#### `toRgb(): Rgb`

Convert a color to an `Rgb` color.

```php
Hex::fromString('#0000ff')->toRgb();
// `Rgb` instance; 'rgb(0, 0, 255)'
```

When coming from a color format that supports opacity, the opacity will simply be omitted.

```php
Rgba::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255, .5)')->toRgb();
// `Rgb` instance; 'rgb(0, 0, 255)'
```

#### `toRgba(float $alpha = 1): Rgba`

Convert a color to a `Rgba` color.

```php
Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toRgba();
// `Rgba` instance; 'rgba(0, 0, 255, 1)'
```

When coming from a color format that doesn't support opacity, it can be added by passing it to the `$alpha` parameter.

```php
Rgba::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)')->toRgba(.5);
// `Rgba` instance; 'rgba(0, 0, 255, .5)'
```

#### `__toString(): string`

Cast the color to a string.

```php
(string) Rgb::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)'); // 'rgb(0,0,255)'
(string) Rgba::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255, .5)'); // 'rgb(0,0,255,0.5)'
(string) Hex::fromString('#0000ff'); // '#0000ff'
(string) Hsl::fromString('hsl(240, 100%, 50%)'); // 'hsl(240, 100%, 50%)'
(string) Hsla::fromString('hsla(240, 100%, 50%, 1.0)'); // 'hsla(240, 100%, 50%, 1.0)'
```

### `Factory::fromString(): Color`

With the `Factory` class, you can create a color instance from any string (it does an educated guess under the hood). If the string isn't a valid color string in any format, it throws an `InvalidColorValue` exception.

```php
Factory::fromString('rgb(0, 0, 255)'); // `Rgb` instance
Factory::fromString('blue'); // `Named` instance
Factory::fromString('#0000ff'); // `Hex` instance
Factory::fromString('hsl(240, 100%, 50%)'); // `Hsl` instance
Factory::fromString('Hello world!'); // `InvalidColorValue` exception
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information what has changed recently.

## Testing

``` bash
$ composer test
```

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/spatie/.github/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Security

If you've found a bug regarding security please mail [security@spatie.be](mailto:security@spatie.be) instead of using the issue tracker.

## Credits

- [Sebastian De Deyne](https://github.com/sebastiandedeyne)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## About Spatie
Spatie is a webdesign agency based in Antwerp, Belgium. You'll find an overview of all our open source projects [on our website](https://spatie.be/opensource).

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
